README:    The Atavachron for Pre-Prints  v1.1
-------  

INDEX:
------
 README                    this file
 atavachron.el             elisp source for the Atavachron
 atavachron.info           online info file for the Atavachron
 atavachron.texi           texinfo source for the Atavachron docs
 texinfo.tex               texinfo macro package
 zcat.el                   elisp source for zcat (by Graham Gough)

INSTALL:
--------

@ Compile Documentation:

If you have difficulty producing the documentation, you can
download atavachron.ps.Z from the same directory in which you got
atavachron.tar.Z (this package). The source code "atavachron.el" also
has minimal documentation in its header.

1. Put texinfo.tex in your TEXINPUTS path (or current directory) if
   not it's already there.
2. Hardcopy--
   * In Emacs, while viewing atavachron.texi:
         (M-x) texinfo-tex-buffer
         (M-x) texinfo-texindex
         (M-x) texinfo-tex-buffer 
         print atavachron.dvi by the usual route.

   * Alternatively, outside Emacs:
         tex atavachron.texi, twice; print atavachron.dvi
         or use texi2dvi if available.

3. Info file--
      Load the included atavachron.info into your Emacs info directory
      and edit your "top" node listing. 

      To view the uninstalled atavachron info file from inside info,
      type:
         g (~/path/atavachron.info)
      This will load the info file by hand. 



@ Read the Documentation...



@ Configure and Load:

1. edit .emacs as per documentation (see Configuration section).
2. edit (or create) .netrc (see Batteries not Included).
3. edit (or create) .dvipsrc (see Batteries not Included).

 * Note: the example code segments for .emacs, etc. given in the doc
   can be cut and pasted from the header of atavachron.el
   Search for: "---.emacs", "---.netrc", and "---.dvipsrc"

4. update TEXINPUTS environment variable if need be.
5. byte-compile the elisp source files and put them in your
   Emacs lisp directory.
   Note: With the new byte-compiler (and optimizer), certain
         warnings about free variables are issued when byte-compiling.
 	 You can ignore these, and the compiled .elc files
	 will work fine. Hopefully the source of these warnings
	 will be remedied in the next release.
6. restart Emacs. All Atavachron functions should be at your disposal.


Should you meet difficulty, contact me at: hetrick@phys.uva.nl

Jim Hetrick

