Installation, problem and troubleshooting guide for Emacs mouse/menu package.

If you're not going to be using this software under the X window
system you can ignore step 1. You will unfortunately be missing out on
a lot of the functionality by not using X...

1: Patch the file "x11fns.c" using "x11fns-patch": this will make
   x-get-mouse-event behave like x-proc-mouse-event as far as meta-key
   reporting is concerned, and add the "x-set-baud" function recently
   posted to the net (typically called with an argument of 1000000).

2: Rebuild Emacs with HAVE_X_WINDOWS and HAVE_X_MENU or
   HAVE_SUNWINDOWS defined, depending on your desired window system.

   NB. at our local site we preload the menu software in 2 seperate X
   and SunView versions: if you wish to do this then byte-compile all
   the supplied "*.el" files with your existing 18.55 Emacs before
   rebuilding for speed and compactness. For SunView you'll probably
   have to increase the amount of pure lisp storage available,
   PURESIZE (we set it to 2000000 here: that may be over the top),
   remember that most m-<arch>.h files will override the default
   (especially "m-sparc.h", "m-sun2.h" and "m-sun3.h").

3: Save your existing "default.el" and "default.elc", if any, and
   install the supplied version, byte-compiled to taste.

4: Under Sunview, just restart your emacstool. The title bar should
   display a message telling you how to get menus (by default, it will
   be via the right mouse button in the text region). 

   Under X, add the contents of ".Xdefaults" to your resource database
   (this file can be merged with your personal X defaults if desired),
   and enable bug compatibilty mode (on an X11R4 server) using "xset
   bc". You may wish to try the supplied ".twmrc" in conjuction as
   well, but don't expect many of the menu options to work: they're
   fairly site-specific. An example ".xinitrc" is also supplied. Now
   restart Emacs, a message in the modeline should tell you how to get
   menus, by default it will be via the right mouse button in the text
   region.  

5: Have fun.

Known bugs and problems.

Most of the code assumes you've got 3 buttons on your mouse. On SUNs
this is not usually a great problem :-). It has only been tested on
SUN 2/3/4 and SPARC machines because that's all we have here. 

The menu definitions special-case on X. This is because the SunView
and terminal menus (which were done first) assume a ``pull-right menu
or command item'' implementation which doesn't map easily to the
``deck of cards'' implementation provided by X. The X menus are
probably marginally better organised though, since that's the
environment I spend my time in nowadays. It would be nice if a
well-integrated ``pull-right'' X menu package for Emacs appeared in my
mail box one day...

The mouse-help facility under X produces an Emacs buffer listing the
local and global commands for the region the mouse was in when help
was requested (or the region was chosen from the mouse menu):
unfortunately it blithely assumes that Emacs will get the events
listed -- which it may not if your window manager grabs them. With the
supplied ".twmrc" only "meta-{left,middle,right}" are grabbed by twm,
so the only functions which cannot be used are x-mouse-line-to-top,
x-mouse-line-to-middle, x-mouse-top-to-line in the scrollbar region.

X-mouse-yes-or-no-p shouldn't be used (via fset) as a replacement for
yes-or-no-p (however attractive this may seem), because it's too fast
in many typical cases, such as dired: Emacs doesn't have time to
create and display the *Deletions* buffer before the yes/no menu pops
up and anyway it will probably obscure some of the listing and you
have no way of moving it...

There are no C-mode specific menus or mouse bindings. I don't program
in C, so I have little or no idea what would useful (apart from the
obvious "make" entry) for C programmers. Perhaps some educated soul
would like to conjure up a reasonable default menu for C.

Troubleshooting:

Problem: You get an "unknown XMenu error" when you press the right
	 mouse button (and Emacs appears to hang). 

Solution: You have forgotten to enable bug compatibility (check with
	  "xset q", fix with "xset bc"). OpenLook devotees please
	  check that you use the MIT xset, *not* the SUN one which 
	  silently ignores the "bc" option, and will not report the
	  compatibility status of the server.

Problem: You get an message saying "#<EMACS BUG: ILLEGAL DATATYPE
	 #<NATNUMP 10912092109>, save your buffers immediately and
	 please report this bug" (the number may vary) when you try to
	 press a mouse button with one or more of the shift, control
	 or meta keys held down.

Solution: You have not patched "x11fns.c" (see above), to have
	  x-get-mouse-event report the meta bit correctly. Do it as
	  above and rebuild.

Good Luck,
     		Russell Ritchie, Fri Jun  1 15:09:51 1990.