                                                             3/21/97
                     Tom's Emacs Toolkit
                     -------------------

Title:          Tom's Emacs Toolkit & Template

Version:        1.3

Entered-date:   March 21, 1997

Description:    Emacs init file for 101-key keyboards (and X Windows).
                This toolkit can be used as a default keyboard configuration
                for Emacs running under X-Windows.  It binds keypad and
                function keys to Emacs editting commands.
                Copy the sample.emacs file to your home directory as .emacs
                customize it, smile.

Keywords:       Tom Emacs Toolkit Template .emacs init setup
                keypad keyboard binding X-Windows

Author:         mail11325@pop.net

Maintained-by:  Internet: mail11325@pop.net
                Packet:   N4OOJ @ WR4AGC.#DUR.NC.USA.NA

Primary-site:   sunsite.unc.edu /pub/Linux/apps/editors/emacs

Alternate-site: cc.gatech.edu /pub/Linux/apps/editors/emacs

Original-site:

Platform:       Linux 2.0.29, Solaris & Intergraph (with modifications).

Copying-policy: GPL

Purpose:  Enable the keypad and functions keys for selected
          editing commands.  Emacs is a very powerful, configurable
          editor.  But I found it hard for new users to use because
          it has so many commands and features.

          This toolkit will hopefully allow new users to rapidly become
          more familar and comfortable with Emacs running under
          X-windows.

          It can also become a starting point for a user to configure
          an initial editing environment as one sees fit.

          To Unzip: gzip -d tet-1.3.tar.gz
                    tar xvf tet-1.3.tar
                            OR
                    tar zxvf tet-1.3.tar.gz


To Use:
    o  Copy the 'sample.emacs' file to '.emacs' in your home directory.
         eg. cp sample.emacs $HOME/.emacs

    o  Start emacs.  I use emacs in an xterm X-windows environment.
         eg. emacs a &

    o  The 'sample.env' file can be inserted in your .env file.  It will
       let you iconify an Emacs window to the standard GNU Emacs icon.
         eg. emacs .env &
             Control-x i
             sample.env
             Control-x Control-s
             Control-x Control-c
             emacs a &
             iconify

    o  The 'sample.Xresources' file can be inserted in your
       .Xresourcesenv file.  It will set some default color and
       fonts for Emacs.
         eg. emacs .Xresources &
             Control-x i
             sample.Xresources
             Control-x Control-s
             Control-x Control-c
             emacs a &

       You can probably also put this in your .Xdefaults file as an
       alternative.  It doesn't need to be in both files, only one
       file is OK.  The .Xresources could probably be made a link
       to your .Xdefaults file.

       Shutdown X-Windows and restart it to get the new resources.
       Alternately type: xrdb -load .Xresources


             Other Hints and Tricks
             ----------------------

    o  BUFFER KILL
       Kill a buffer with Control-x k.
         You can have multiple buffers open to multiple files
         and directories at one time.

    o  COMMAND STOP
       Quit a command with Control-g.

    o  DIRECTORY LIST
       F2 is the directory editor, dired.
       -  Press F2,
       -  press 'Enter',
       -  select a file or directory with the mouse, and
       -  press 'f'.

    o  FILENAME COMPLETION
       File name completion in Bash is the 'Tab'.
         eg. ls -l sample.X[Tab]

    o  FTP
       You can use FTP to access other nodes in your LAN or even
       use anonymous FTP to download software from the Net.
       Ange-FTP and Emacs is often faster for browsing anon-ftp sites
       than using a browser.

       Copy the sample.netrc file to your home directory.
        eg. cp sample.netrc $HOME/.netrc
            chmod 600 .netrc

       Note: .netrc files pose potential security problems
             if not properly protected.

       Now use the F4 function key binding to 'fire up' FTP:
       - Bring your Internet link up (if not already up).
           eg. linkup
       - emacs &
       - F4
       - Backspace  Backspace     (in the bottom minibuffer)
       - / Tab Tab                (in the bottom minibuffer)
       - left paddle-right paddle mouse click on a anonymous ftp site
       - (middle paddle mouse click if using a 3-button mouse)
       - left paddle-right paddle mouse click on a directory, like 'pub'
       - left paddle-right paddle mouse click on a file, like 'README'
       - Control-x Control-w
       - Backspace in the mini-buffer to the leading slash, /
       - Type a path and filename, like '/tmp/README'
       - Control-x Control-c
       - linkdown
       - The README file is now in /tmp/README !

       Ange-FTP also works real well when ftp-ing to other nodes
       on your LAN.  Just modify the .netrc file with your remote
       login and password.

    o  KEYBINDINGS
       To rebind some other keys, first find out what key codes
       those keys emit.
         Control-h l                     (l=letter L)
         Control-x 1                     (1=letter one)
         Edit your .emacs file accordingly.
         Quit emacs and reenter to reread the .emacs file.
         Hint: When you start changing your .emacs file, backup it up
               frequently in order to get back where you started from,
               just in case.
               eg. cp .emacs .emacs.GUD

    o  MARK
       Mark set with the keyboard:
         Control-spacebar.
                OR
       Mark set with the mouse:
         Two button mouse: left-paddle right-paddle together
         Three button mouse: middle-paddle

    o  MACROS
       Simple keyboard macros are defines as follows:
         Control-x (                   beginning of macro
         some commands
         Control-x )                   end of macro

         Control-x e                   to execute the macro 1 time
         Control-u 99 Control-x e      to execute the macro 99 times

    o  META
       Esc x  or Alt-x is the Meta key for x, M-x.
       Press 'Esc', let up, and then press 'x'.
       Press 'Alt', keep down, and then press 'x'.

    o  REPLACE
       M-% or Esc % or Alt-% is Query Replace.
       Press 'Esc', let up, and then press Shift-5 to get '%'.
       Query replace: oldstring 'Enter' with: newstring 'Enter'
       'y' or '!' to do remainder of file.

    o  SAVE
       Save often with Control-x Control-s.

    o  SPLIT WINDOWS VERTICALLY/HORIZONTALLY
       You can split the main Emacs window vertically.
       - Cursor on the bottom blue status bar.
       - Control-left paddle-right paddle mouse all together.
       - Cursor in the left-hand main Emacs window.
       - Control-Shift-left paddle-right paddle mouse all together.

       You can split the main Emacs window horizontally.
       - Cursor on the right-hand scroll bar.
       - Control-left paddle-right paddle mouse all together.
       - Cursor in the upper main Emacs window.
       - Control-Shift-left paddle-right paddle mouse all together.

       Note: Substitute middle mouse paddle for 3-button mouse.


                 SEE-CHARS
                 ---------

The 'Control-h l' is the BEST way to determine codes your keyboard emits.
But there are other ways to find this out also.

The see-chars program can be useful for displaying codes.
see-chars works better on my emacs and keyboard combination at work
than it does at home.  I was not able to make it work for my keypad
at home.  Maybe your luck is better.


         eg. emacs a &
             Esc x  or  Alt-x load-file
             see-chars
             Esc x  or Alt-x
             see-chars
             Type any char & wait 3 secs
             Read character at bottom of display.


                 TPU
                 ---

The tpu-mapper program can be useful for configuring your keypad
as a DEC EDT editor keypad.  It's use of a GOLD key can double
the number of commands attached to the keypad.

I was not able to make it work for my keypad.  Maybe your luck is better.


         eg. cd /usr/lib/emacs/19.28/lisp
             emacs a &
             Esc x  or  Alt-x load-file
             tpu-mapper
               ...
             Control-x Control-s
             Control-x Control-c


                                                                 3/21/97

      Not GNU Emacs for DOS and Windows

As of 5/8/96 you can find a decent emacs for DOS and Windows
at the following site.  I personally use this when I'm away
from a Unix machine.  There are other fine PC emacs as well, I'm sure.

ftp://ftp.netcom.com/pub/no/notgnu

    o  dnot17.exe
    o  ntnot17.exe
    o  wnot17.exe





tet-1.3/

total 40
-rw-rw-rw-   1 herman   users         458 Mar 20 14:25 CHANGES
-rw-rw-rw-   1 herman   users        9964 Mar 20 18:28 HOWTO
-rw-rw-rw-   1 herman   users         235 Mar 20 18:28 TODO
-rw-rw-rw-   1 herman   users        4210 Mar 20 18:17 keyboard.tmpl
-rw-rw-rw-   1 herman   users         681 Mar 20 13:52 sample.Xresources
-rw-rw-rw-   1 herman   users       13466 Mar 20 18:08 sample.emacs
-rw-rw-rw-   1 herman   users          65 Mar 20 13:53 sample.env
-rw-rw-rw-   1 herman   users        1529 Mar 20 13:57 sample.netrc
-rw-rw-rw-   1 herman   users         884 Mar 20 18:28 see-chars.el
-rw-rw-rw-   1 herman   users         344 Mar 20 19:51 tet-1.3.lcd
-rw-rw-rw-   1 herman   users        1665 Mar 20 14:44 tet-1.3.lsm


                  CREDITS

Most of the ideas in this toolkit has been shamelessly stolen
from sources too numerous to mention.

Special thanks to:

    Michael Carpenter and the gang at the Space Center for the
    netrc file and how to use Emacs anonymous ftp.  Also the
    split window feature and the mouse cut and paste instructions.





HOWTO
