This is the README file for the package SQL Mode Version 0.922.


The package SQL Mode provides four major modes for interaction with
Sybase SQL servers.

SQL Mode was written for XEmacs (formerly Lucid Emacs) version 19.8 or
later.  Version 19.10 or later is recommended.  Many features in SQL Mode,
like toolbars and horizontal scrollbars, rely on later versions of XEmacs.

In addition, SQL Mode now works with FSF Emacs version 19 in a slightly
limited way.  The package easymenu is required if you are using FSF
Emacs.  SQL Mode has been tested for FSF Emacs version 19.28.  It may
work with some earlier versions, but has not been tested.  Toolbars are
not supported in FSF Emacs version 19.28.


THIS IS BETA SOFTWARE! Use at your own risk.  No, it will not drop
tables or re-boot servers at random, but don't expect it to do
everything without slight `undocumented features.'  We have been using
it in production for over a year now with little to no problems, but
YMMV.


FILES
-----

NEWS			A brief history of SQL Mode and what has
			changed in it.

README			This file

SQL-MODE-README		A help file that SQL Mode uses.  This file needs
			to be moved to the directory specified by the
			variable `data-directory'.

Refcard.ps		A postscript reference card for SQL Mode.

sql-indent.el		These files are the code for sql-mode.
sql-icons.el
sql-mode.el
sql-comment.el
sql-toolbar.el
	
sql_mode0.9b.xbm	An xbm file for use with the package frame-icon.


INSTALLATION
------------

To install SQL Mode, you need to add three lines to your $HOME/.emacs
file.  The first line tells emacs where to look for SQL Mode, the
second line load SQL Mode, and the third line does the initialization.
For things to work properly, you need all three things to happen in
that order.  If you put *all* off the .el files that came with the
distribution in a directory in your load-path, then don't bother with
the first line.

    (setq load-path (cons "<PATH-TO-SQL-MODE>/" load-path))
    (require 'sql-mode)
    (sql-initialize)

To make full use of the help system, you will need to copy the file
SQL-MODE-README into the directory specified by the variable
`data-directory'.  The file should have come with the SQL Mode
distribution.


STARTING SQL MODE
-----------------

To automatically enter sql-mode when editing a file with a ".sql", a
".tbl" or a ".sp" extension, add the following to your .emacs file.

    (autoload 'sql-mode "sql-mode" "SQL Editing Mode" t)
    (setq auto-mode-alist
       (append '(("\\.sql$" . sql-mode)
                 ("\\.tbl$" . sql-mode)
                 ("\\.sp$"  . sql-mode))
               auto-mode-alist))

sql-batch-mode and sql-interactive-mode are invoked with
M-x sql-batch-mode and M-x sql-interactive-mode respectively.  You will
be prompted for the SQL server, the login id of the user, and the
password.  Passwords are echoed with `*' characters as you are typing
them by default.  If you would rather see the password as you are
typing it, see the variable `sql-secure-passwords'.

In order to make sql-mode easier to use, I highly suggest using
`associations', as detailed in the comments in the file sql-mode.el.


GETTING MORE HELP
-----------------

Use the info

