From rbj@dsys.icst.nbs.gov Fri May  5 13:41:24 1989
Date: Thu, 27 Apr 89 14:19:48 EDT
From: Root Boy Jim <rbj@dsys.icst.nbs.gov>
Organization: National Institute of Standards and Technology
	formerly National Bureau of Standards
Disclaimer: Opinions expressed are those of the sender
	and do not reflect NIST policy or agreement.
To: eliot@phoenix.princeton.edu
Cc: unix-emacs@bbn.com
Subject: Blackbox

? From: Eliot Handelman <phoenix!eliot@princeton.edu>

? Can somebody tell me how to play blackbox.el ? It's included in the 
? GNU distribution without rules, should I just throw it away or is it
? worth playing, or is the idea to figure out how to play it without
? rules? 

This is a great little game! I read about it in a book called something
like "Playboy's Guide to Games", which describes and reviews just about
any and every game you can think of. Anyway, an example is best, so
refer to the following diagram which is a sample game I played.

The object of the game is to find four hidden balls by shooting rays
into the black box. There are four possibilitys: 1) the ray will
pass thru the box undisturbed, 2) it will hit a ball and be absorbed,
3) it will be deflected and exit the box, or 4) be deflected immediately,
not even being allowed entry into the box.

The strange part is the method of deflection. It seems that rays will
not pass next to a ball, and change direction at right angles to avoid it.

		             R   3   
		 1 - - - - - - - - 1 
		   - - - - - - - -   
		   - O - - - - - - 3 
		 2 - - - - O - O -   
		 4 - - - - - - - - 
		 5 - - - - - - - - 5 
		   - - - - - - - - R 
		 H - - - - - - - O   
		   2   H 4       H   

Rays which enter and exit are numbered. You can see that rays 1 & 5 pass
thru the box undisturbed. Ray 2 is deflected by the northwesternmost
ball. Likewise rays 3 and 4. Rays which hit balls and are absorbed are
marked with H. The bottom of the left and the right of the bottom hit
the southeastern ball directly. Rays may also hit balls after being
reflected. Consider the H on the bottom next to the 4. It bounces off
the NW-ern most ball and hits the central ball. A ray shot from above
the right side 5 would hit the SE-ern most ball. The R beneath the 5
is because the ball is returned instantly. It is not allowed into
the box if it would reflect immediately. The R on the top is a more
leisurely return. Both central balls would tend to deflect it east
or west, but it cannot go either way, so it just retreats.

Those are the rules. The mechanics of playing are well described by
describe-mode. Here is a brief recap. Movement is by your friends
C-a, C-e, C-b, C-f, C-n, C-p. When outside the box, a SPC shoots a
ray into the box, to be diagnosed. You can also move into the box
and type SPC, which toggles whether a ball is marked there or not.
This is only for your convenience, and does not affect where the
balls really are. When you are satisfied you have figured things
out, type RET to get your score. This is presumably some inverse
function of the number of rays shot into the box.

I hereby nominate this description for inclusion into the distribution,
and waive all copyright, patent, or trade secret protection.

	Root Boy Jim is what I am
	Are you what you are or what?


