README for Ada Mode
-----------------------------------

In this directory you find all the files to use Emacs for programming in
Ada.  There is also a manual in ada-mode.texi which has been updated
for the current release.  Please report any discrepancies between the
doc and the code.  Documentation bugs are as serious as code bugs.

This release was built on Gnu Emacs 20.3. It is known to work
with Emacs 20.3, XEmacs 20.4, and Emacs 19.28 on VMS.


Installation
------------

Installing the ada-mode is really easy. You have to know where
Emacs (or Xemacs) is installed on your system (for instance,
you can try a "wich emacs" command on your system).

We will suppose in the rest of this document that it is installed
in /usr/local/ on a UNIX system, or in c:\emacs on a Windows
system.

Copy the files *.el and *.elc from the current directory to
   
     /usr/local/share/emacs/site-lisp   on Unix
     c:\emacs\site-lisp                 on Windows

If you had a previous installation of the ada-mode (not the one
packaged with Emacs), you should edit the file site-start.el
in the same directory, and delete any the following lines if you
see them
    
    (load "ada-xref")
    (load "ada-prj")
    (require 'ada-xref)
    (require 'ada-prj)

This should be done also in your .emacs.

These are no longer required for the ada-mode.

If it is not already there, you might want to add the following line
either to your .emacs or to site-start.el (the system-wide configuration
file):

   (require 'ada-mode)
   (unless ada-xemacs
       (global-font-lock-mode t)
     (add-hook 'find-file-hooks 'turn-on-font-lock-if-enabled))

The second line will force Emacs to use color highlighting whenever
possible.


Installation on VMS
-------------------

On a VMS system (using Emacs 19.28), you will need to copy the files 
from the VMS/ subdirectory to your Emacs site-lisp/ directory, 
as described above.
This will provide you with some files that where not distributed 
with Emacs 19.28, but that are required for the ada-mode.

One of these file is called dot_emacs.
You can either copy its content to your .emacs file, or if you
want everybody on your system to have access to the ada-mode, copy
its content to a file called  site-start.el in the site-lisp
directory as described above.

Troubleshooting
---------------

In case you get an error message when you start Emacs (something like
"Symbol's value as variable is void: ada-...."), this means that one
of Emacs's initialisation files in trying to read or set a variable
that has not yet been defined.
Try to add a (load "ada-mode") a the beginning of your .emacs. This will
load the ada-mode, and define all the variables.

If you have problems with the Ada mode, please make sure you are using the
correct version. For this, type the following from Emacs:
  M-x locate-library RET ada-mode RET
(M-x means press and release ESC, and then press x)
The result should be a directory called site-lisp. If it is not the case,
then it means that you are using an old version of the Ada mode, and that
Emacs is not able to find the correct files.
Try setting the following in your .emacs :

   (add-to-list 'load-path "directory/where/ada-mode/is/installed")


Documentation
---------------

For printing pass it through TeX with 'tex ada-mode.texi'.  This will
generate a 'ada-mode.dvi'.  Ask your sysadmin how to print dvi files
(usually with dvips).  I recently discovered texi2html.  This makes up
another nice way to see the documentation online. 

Files
-----

The main Ada mode is in ada-mode.el.  It contains the standard setup
with support routines for imenu, font-lock, and find-file.  Its principal
code contains the indenting functions.

As extensions to this mode you get an ada-stmt.el for statement
templates, ada-xref.el for using your Ada sources like a hyperlinked
document (show declarations of entities in another window), and
ada-prj.el to handle the projects files (see the documentation)

Bugs
----

If you have any problems, please report the bugs to
Emmanuel Briot <briot@gnat.com> with a subject line including 
'emacs ada mode'.
If you are a supported customer of Ada Core Technologies, please report 
your bugs to report@gnat.com in the usual manner so that they get priority
attention.

Have fun with Ada and Emacs
