;To: unix-emacs@bbn.com
;Date: 28 Apr 89 06:03:34 GMT
;From: Bob Weiner <mailrus!uflorida!novavax!weiner@bbn.com>
;Sender: arpa-unix-emacs-request@bbn.com
;Subject: Listing of GNU Emacs Lisp source postings to follow
;Organization: Nova University, Fort Lauderdale, FL
;Source-Info:  From (or Sender) name not authenticated.

;;
;; SUMMARY:      Descriptions of new or heavily modified GNU Emacs lisp
;;                 libraries that follow this posting.
;; USAGE:        none
;;
;; AUTHOR:       Bob Weiner, Applied Research, Motorola, Inc., (407) 738 - 2087
;; ORIG-DATE:    09-Mar-89
;; LAST-MOD:     27-Apr-89 at 23:45:10 by Bob Weiner
;; DESCRIPTION:  
;;
;;	Files that end in:
;;
;;		.el 	= Emacs lisp (elisp) source files
;;              .info   = Info file, modified for transmission
;;
;;      A '+' appended to the end of the file means that it is part of the
;;	standard GNU Emacs distribution but has been modified locally.  A link
;;	to this file and its '.elc' compiled version should exist in the
;;	../lisp directory or Emacs may not be able to load it properly.
;;
;; DESCRIP-END.
;;

buff-menu.el+           Improved with electric-buffer-menu like features but no
			  functionality limitations.
cmd-menus.el            Support functions for my local 'cmd-menus' info file.
                          Requires local mods to info.el and informat.el.
cmd-menus.info          Sample use of Info extensions explained in
                          info-README.  Not for use, just for reference.
info-README             Explains my command reference (menu) extensions to the
                          normal Info file syntax.
info.el+		Emacs 'Info' subsystem.  LNZ added 'insert' node code.
			I added '!' and '@' menu entry and cross reference
			  types for use in command menus and execute-only
			  nodes.  See info-README for more information.
informat.el+            I modified to accept expanded Info command reference
                          syntax.
par-align.el            My package that aligns and fills paragraphs and
                          program comments properly.
rep-region.el           My package that replaces things in a region only.
rmail.el+		I changed 'e' keybinding to edit current message.  I
                          also made it automatically update the summary
                          buffer when needed.
rmailsum.el+		I modified this and rmail.el so that whenever you delete
			  a message now, you normally never see it again,
                          unless all of your messages are deleted.  This is
                          true in both the RMAIL and RMAIL-summary buffers.

			  Previously, {x} within the RMAIL-summary buffer
			  exited this buffer, usually leaving you in the RMAIL
			  buffer.  {e} now performs this function.

                          Now you can perform most Rmail functions from the
                          summary buffer with the same keys.
smart-info.el           My package that browses Info networks with one key
                          and its corresponding meta-key.
smart-key.el            Driver functions and most mode-specific support
                          functions that make one key and its meta-key do
                          different things in different major modes depending
                          on where point is when the smart key is pressed.
smart-menu.el           Menu interface to Emacs subsystems that works with
                          smart-key.el.
wconfig.el		My package that maintains a save ring of window
                          configurations for later recall.


-- 
Bob Weiner, Motorola, Inc.,   USENET:  ...!gatech!uflorida!novavax!weiner
(407) 738-2087

