00_README for Ada Mode v2.8:
----------------------------

In this directory you find all the files to use Emacs for programming in
Ada.  There is also a short manual called Ada-Mode-Manual.  Some minor
discrepancies between the doc and the code might exist.  Please tell me
about them.  An up to date distribution can be found on cs.nyu.edu:/pub/gnat.


This release was built on Gnu Emacs 19.28.  The releases 19.25 upto
19.28 are mainly bug fix releases.  This means, that the Ada Mode won't
run on Emacsen older than 19.24.  Anyway, I recommend to use Emacs 19.27
or 19.28.


I'd like to get some input from people using Xemacs (formerly Lucid
Emacs).  What are your difficulties? What files are missing?


Installation
------------

Put all these files in your load path and copy `dot.emacs' into your
personal emacs start up file `.emacs'.

I highly recommend to byte-compile all files (e.g. with
M-x byte-recompile-directory) 

If you don't understand what I'm talking about, look into
Ada-Mode-Manual and the Emacs online help (C-h i emacs)


Files
-----

The main Ada Mode is in ada-mode.el.  It contains the standard setup
with support routines for imenu, font-lock, and find-file.  Its principal
code contains the indenting functions.

As extensions to this mode you get ada-stmt.el for statement templates,
and ada-xref.el for using your Ada sources like a hyperlinked document
(show declarations of entities in another window)

I deleted skeleton.el and imenu.el from the distribution as they are
part of Gnu Emacs since 19.25. Find-file.el was updated to the actual
version 2.7.  Compile.el and font-lock.el are prereleases of a future
Emacs version. 

Read the file `Changes', if you want to know, what is new in this
version.


Contributions
-------------

The new file ada-verdix.el contains some useful routines, if you are
working with a VADS environment.


If you have any problems, please mail to Rolf Ebert <ebert@inf.enst.fr>,
Markus Heritsch <Markus.Heritsch@studbox.uni-stuttgart.de> or the Ada
Mode mailing list <ada-mode@inf.enst.fr>.  You can also subscribe to
this list by sending a message to listserv@inf.enst.fr with empty
subject and the contents:

sub ada-mode Your Full Name


	Rolf Ebert

