Date: Sun, 15 Mar 92 13:19:29 EST
Subject: Assignment of code to FSF

Could you place this somewhere appropriate in the Lisp Code Directory?
It's the form that an author must sign in order to have his code
incorporated in GNU Emacs.  It would probably be useful to have at some ftp
site.
					 Thanks,

					-Michael Ernst
					 mernst@theory.lcs.mit.edu

---------------- cut here ----------------
The way to assign copyright to the Foundation is to sign an assignment
contract.

In addition, if you are employed to do programming (even at a
university), or have made an agreement with your employer or school
saying it owns programs you write, then you and we need a signed piece
of paper from your employer or school, disclaiming rights to the program.

The disclaimer should be signed by a vice president or general manager
of the company.  If you can't get at them, it is almost as good to
find someone who signs licenses for software that is purchased.  Here
is a sample wording:

  Digital Stimulation Corporation hereby disclaims all copyright interest
  in the program "seduce" (a program to direct assemblers to make passes
  at compilers under GNU Emacs) written by Hugh Heffner.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1987
  Ty Coon, President of Vice, Digital Stimulation Corp.

The description of what the program does is just to make it clearer
what the disclaimer covers.

Below is the assignment contract that we usually use.  You would need
to print it out, sign it, and snail it to:

Richard Stallman
545 Tech Sq rm 430
Cambridge, MA 02139

Snail a copy of the employer's disclaimer as well.

Please send me email about what you decide to do.  If you have any
questions, or would like something to be changed, ask rms@ai.mit.edu via email.
			    ASSIGNMENT

   For good and valuable consideration, receipt of which I acknowledge, I,
NAME OF PERSON, hereby transfer to the Free Software Foundation, Inc. (the
"Foundation") my entire right, title, and interest (including all rights
under copyright) in my computer program NAME OF PROGRAM (the "Program"),
subject to the conditions below.  The work hereby assigned shall further
include any future changes and/or enhancements hereafter made by me and
transmitted by me to the Foundation for the Foundation's use, whether at
the request of the Foundation or on my own initiative.

   Upon thirty days' prior written notice, the Foundation agrees to grant me
non-exclusive rights to use the Program as I see fit; (and the Foundation's
rights shall otherwise continue unchanged).

   For the purposes of this contract, a work "based on the Program" means any
work that in whole or in part incorporates or is derived from all or part of
the Program.

   The Foundation promises that all distribution of the Program, or of any
work "based on the Program", that takes place under the control of the
Foundation or its agents or assignees, shall be on terms that explicitly and
perpetually permit anyone possessing a copy of the work to which the terms
apply, and possessing accurate notice of these terms, to redistribute copies
of the work to anyone on the same terms.  These terms shall not restrict which
members of the public copies may be distributed to.  These terms shall not
require a member of the public to pay any royalty to the Foundation or to
anyone else for any permitted use of the work they apply to, or to communicate
with the Foundation or its agents in any way either when redistribution is
performed or on any other occasion.

   The Foundation promises that any program "based on the Program" offered to
the public by the Foundation or its agents or assignees shall be offered in
the form of machine-readable source code, in addition to any other forms of
the Foundation's choosing.  However, the Foundation is free to choose at its
convenience the media of distribution for machine-readable source code.

   The Foundation promises to give or send me, upon reasonable prior notice
and payment of a fee no more than twenty times the cost of the necessary
materials and postage, a copy of any or all of the works "based on the
Program" that it offers to the public or that it has offered within the past
six months, or that it distributed for the first time within the past six
months.  For works that are programs, the machine-readable source code shall
be included.  My request shall detail whether I wish to receive all such works
or specific works.  My choice of works to request may affect the cost and
therefore the fee.

   I hereby represent and warrant that I am the sole copyright holder for the
Program and that I have the right and power to enter into this contract.  I
hereby indemnify and hold harmless the Foundation, its officers, employees,
and agents against any and all claims, actions or damages (including
attorney's reasonable fees) asserted by or paid to any party on account of a
breach or alleged breach of the foregoing warranty.  I make no other express
or implied warranty (including without limitation, in this disclaimer of
warranty, any warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE).

Agreed:  [signature and date]


For the Free Software Foundation,
Richard Stallman, President:



[For the copyright registration, what country are you a citizen of?
What year were you born?  Please write the information here; sending
it separately (eg. in a message) makes extra clerical work for us.]


[Please write your snail address here, so we can snail a copy back to you.]


