Installation instructions, Pcmail version 4.3

Your distribution should contains the following files:

Mail reader documentation:

	mailhelp.PS	documentation in PostScript form

Mail reader implementation:

	pcmail.el 	variable declarations, mail reader entry
			point, miscellaneous functions
        pcmailattr.el   attribute-manipulating commands and their
			support functions
	pcmailbabyl.el  commands and support functions which know about
			Babyl format.  All other routines use entry
			points in this file and themselves know
			nothing about Babyl format. 
	pcmaildate.el	date handling
	pcmaildrop.el	scanning and loading of mail drop files.
			These functions are generic; specific mail
			drop processing functions are all in
			pcmailsysdep.el 
	pcmailfolder.el	folder management
        pcmaillist.el   folder-list management
        pcmailmail.el   composition of new messages, replies, and
			forwarded messages. 
	pcmailmisc.el	miscellaneous commands: sort, edit, etc.
        pcmailmove.el	movement within a folder
        pcmailout.el    output of messages to files, printers, and
			other folders
        pcmailsub.el	message filtering and subsetting
	pcmailsum.el	message summary management
	pcmailsysdep.el all system-dependent routines, including
			definition of all mail drop import and
			message conversion routines, print functions,
			and message transmission (VMS only).  In
			theory, new systems can be ported to simply by
			following the UNIX and VMS examples in this
			file. 

Mail reader support programs:

       vms-movemail.com   required for VMS users only.  Provides an
			  (admittedly crufty, although usable)
			  interface between the VAXMAIL system and the
			  mail reader.  Moves new mail from a MAIL.MAI
			  newmail folder to the mail reader's primary
			  folder.  The script works fine on our local
			  VMS 5.1, but I would strongly suggest testing it
			  on your system before relying on it, since it
			  does muck with your MAIL.MAI file and I don't
			  know VMS all that well (nor do I have a desire to).

       vms-doprint.com	  required for VMS users only.  Sends messages
			  to a named printer.

       nntp_slave.c
       nntp.c
       nntp.h		  source code for a simple NNTP client which
			  is driven by a Pcmail NNTP mail drop
			  processor.  The program requires a Berkeley
			  socket library in order to run.

       mh-to-pcmail-export  a simple shell script, driven by the Pcmail
			    MH mail drop processor, which accumulates
			    message files from an MH folder directory
			    into a single file to be imported into a
			    Pcmail folder.

Installation Instructions:

These instructions are a subset of those in the supplied documentation.

First, print the documentation file mailhelp.PS.  It is a PostScript file.

Next, copy all Emacs-Lisp files (*.el) into a directory where to a directory
where the GNU-Emacs load commands will find the files.  Those files should
then be byte-compiled.  

The Emacs-Lisp code must be either manually loaded or autoloaded before the
mail reader can be used.  If you are using Emacs version 19, the pcmail code
contains automatic autoload directives which you can process with the

	M-x update-file-autoloads 

command.  If you are using Emacs version 18, you must manually set up 
autoloading by editing loaddefs.el or your local emacs initialization file
with the following form:

	(autoload 'pcmail "pcmail" "pcmail mail reader" t)

The following installation procedures are only necessary if you are
(1) running the mail reader on a VMS system, (2) you wish to use the
NNTP mail-drop capability, or (3) you wish to use the MH import
capability.  If you do not need a capability, you can ignore the
appropriate installation information

Installing VMS DCL Scripts

In order to use the mail reader on VMS, you must install the scripts
"vms-movemail.com" and "vms-movemail.com" in the GNU-Emacs "etc"
directory.

A note about the VMS mail drop importer: the vms-movemail.com DCL
script which Pcmail calls to perform the mail transfer when new mail
arrives works perfectly well on our local VMS 5.1.  I nonetheless
strongly suggest testing it on your system before relying on it, since
(1) it does muck with your MAIL.MAI file, (2) I don't know VMS all
that well (nor do I have a desire to), and (3) I don't want to be
responsible for people trashing their mail.


Installing nntp_slave

The nntp_slave program is a simple (very simple) NNTP client that
takes a newsgroup name and places messages from that newsgroup into a
file.  It uses a control file to keep track of which messages it has
retrieved; if the control file doesn't exist, it retrieves the latest
20 messages from the specified newsgroup.  This program requires the
Berkeley socket library.

Installation of the program is simple.  Compile nntp.c and
nntp_slave.c, then link both together into an executable called
"nntp_slave":

	cc -o nntp_slave nntp_slave.c nntp.c

Place the executable in the GNU-Emacs "etc" directory.

Installing mh-to-pcmail-export

The mh-to-pcmail-export program is a simple shell script which takes
an MH folder name, goes to that directory, and accumulates all message
files into a single file with separator text between messages.  It is
used by the mail reader when importing an MH folder into a Pcmail
folder. 

Installation consists of moving the shell script into the GNU-Emacs
"etc" directory and changing the file's mode so that it is executable:

	chmod +x mh-to-pcmail-export

At this point, you should be ready to start reading your mail.  Refer
to the printed documentation (mailhelp) as well as the on-line
documentation for full details on features and functionality.

If you have questions or comments, mail them to:

  markl@us.oracle.com

I work on the mail reader in my very limited spare time, so it may
take a while for enhancements to be incorporated.  Bug fix requests
will be dealt with in a more timely fashion.

Happy Hacking,
markl

----------
Mark L. Lambert
Architecture Group, Network Products Division
Oracle Corporation

Internet: markl@us.oracle.com 
USMail:   Oracle Corporation
 	  500 Oracle Parkway, box 659410
	  Redwood Shores CA 94065
voice:    (415) 506 2912
FAX:	  (415) 506 7226
